Create tensor parallelism blog/tutorial (#2766)
microsoft/DeepSpeed: docs/_tutorials/automatic-tensor-parallelism.md

---
title: "Automatic Tensor Parallelism for HuggingFace Models"
tags: inference
---

> This tutorial demonstrates the new automatic tensor parallelism feature for inference. Previously, the user needed to provide an injection policy to DeepSpeed to enable tensor parallelism. DeepSpeed now supports automatic tensor parallelism for HuggingFace models by default as long as kernel injection is not true and an injection policy is not provided. This is convenient for when the injection policy of a model is not known and for improving performance of models without kernel injection support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates the new automatic tensor parallelism feature for inference. Previously, the user needed to provide an injection policy to DeepSpeed to enable tensor parallelism. DeepSpeed now supports automatic tensor parallelism for HuggingFace models by default as long as kernel injection is not enabled and an injection policy is not provided. This allows our users to improve performance of models that are not currently supported via kernel injection, without providing the injection policy.
```

Small suggestion with wording of the last sentence.

```python

> # create the model

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. I think headers are a good idea so I added them.

> ```python
> # create the model
> import transformers
> import deepspeed
> pipe = pipeline("text2text-generation", model="google/t5-v1_1-small", device=local_rank)
> # Initialize the DeepSpeed-Inference engine
> pipe.model = deepspeed.init_inference(
>     pipe.model,
>     mp_size=world_size,
>     dtype=torch.float
> )
> output = pipe('Input String')
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import os
import torch
import transformers
import deepspeed

local_rank = int(os.getenv("LOCAL_RANK", "0"))
world_size = int(os.getenv("WORLD_SIZE", "1"))

# create the model pipeline
pipe = transformers.pipeline(task="text2text-generation", model="google/t5-v1_1-small", device=local_rank)
# Initialize the DeepSpeed-Inference engine
pipe.model = deepspeed.init_inference(
    pipe.model,
    mp_size=world_size,
    dtype=torch.float
)
output = pipe('Input String')
```

We should probably make the example code runnable if a user were to copy, paste, and run it.

Author: That's a good point. I referenced the same example from the inference tutorial page. I had assumed it was runnable myself.

> Previously, to run inference with only tensor parallelism for the models that we don't support kernels, you can pass an injection policy that shows the two specific linear layers on a Transformer Encoder/Decoder layer: 1) the attention output GeMM and 2) layer output GeMM. We need these parts of the layer to add the required all-reduce communication between GPUs to merge the partial results across model-parallel ranks. Below, we bring an example that shows how you can use deepspeed-inference with a T5 model:

Reviewer 2: Should be past tense for this entire paragraph.

```python
# create the model
import transformers
from transformers.models.t5.modeling_t5 import T5Block
import deepspeed
pipe = pipeline("text2text-generation", model="google/t5-v1_1-small", device=local_rank)
# Initialize the DeepSpeed-Inference engine
pipe.model = deepspeed.init_inference(
    pipe.model,
    mp_size=world_size,
    dtype=torch.float,
    injection_policy={T5Block: ('SelfAttention.o', 'EncDecAttention.o', 'DenseReluDense.wo')}
)
output = pipe('Input String')

> ```

Reviewer: Same comment as above code snippet, let's make it runnable if a user were to copy and paste.

Additionally, would it make more sense to have this example first? We show the old way of doing things where the user must specify the `injection_policy` value and then show that we can achieve the same without the user providing that thanks to the new automatic tensor parallelism.

Author: I originally had this example first but @awan-10 suggested I reverse it.

With automatic tensor parallelism, we do not need to provide the injection policy for supported models. The injection policy will be determined at runtime and applied automatically.

## Example Script

We can observe performance improvement with automatic tensor parallism using the [inference test suite](https://github.com/microsoft/DeepSpeedExamples/blob/master/inference/huggingface/text-generation/inference-test.py). The script includes per token latency, bandwidth, throughput and memory checks for comparison.

## Launching

To run without DeepSpeed and without tensor parallelism:

```bash
deepspeed --num_gpus <num_gpus> DeepSpeedExamples/inference/huggingface/text-generation/inference-test.py --name <model> --batch_size <batch_size>
```

To enable tensor parallelism, you need to set the `ds_inference` to True for the compatible models:

```bash
deepspeed --num_gpus <num_gpus> DeepSpeedExamples/inference/huggingface/text-generation/inference-test.py --name <model> --batch_size <batch_size> --ds_inference
```

## OPT 13B Inference Performance Comparison

> The following results were collected using V100 SXM2 32GB GPUs.

Reviewer 3: (from discussion) let's add the flag(s) used to reproduce the numbers below. Should we also add mem bandwidth below to the table?

Author: Hi @jeffra, I included the test_performance flag. I didn't include the bandwidth numbers because I felt Tflops captured enough information for the comparison. I also didn't save the bandwidth numbers but I could calculate them from the Tflops results.
